Add initial conditions (molecule start values) support to scenarios (#973)
esqLABS/esqlabsR: vignettes/design-scenarios.Rmd

To apply them to the simulation, you need to specify which sheets to
load in the `ModelParameterSheets` column of the `Scenarios.xlsx` file.

### 4a. Initial Conditions (Molecule Start Values)

You can override the initial conditions (molecule start values) of a
simulation by defining them in the `ModelInitialValues.xlsx` file.
To apply initial conditions to a scenario, specify the name of the sheet
to load in the `InitialValuesSet` column of the `Scenarios.xlsx` file.
Multiple sheets can be specified as a comma-separated list (e.g.,
`GlobalInitial, CompoundInitial`).

The `ModelInitialValues.xlsx` file has one or more sheets, each
containing molecule start values. Each sheet must have the following
columns:

-   **Container Path**: The path to the container holding the molecule
    (e.g., `Organism|Liver|Intracellular`).
-   **Molecule Name**: The name of the molecule (e.g., `DrugA`).
-   **Is Present**: A logical value (`TRUE`/`FALSE`) indicating whether
    the molecule is present. Rows where `Is Present` is `FALSE` are
    skipped.
-   **Value**: The start value.
-   **Units**: The unit of the start value (e.g., `µmol`). If empty,

>     the value is assumed to be in base units.

Reviewer: **Required change — documentation contradicts the code (and the PR description).**

This says an empty `Units` means "the value is assumed to be in base units." That is false. `readInitialValuesFromXLS()` (R/utilities-parameters.R:523–530) **throws** `errorMissingUnitsInInitialValues` the moment any present molecule has an empty/blank unit. Your own PR body agrees: *"Units ... must be specified (empty units are not allowed)."*

A user who reads this vignette, leaves units blank expecting base units, and then gets a hard error has been actively misled by the docs. Fix the text to state that units are mandatory:

```suggestion
-   **Units**: The unit of the start value (e.g., `µmol`). This is
    mandatory — an empty unit for a present molecule raises an error.
```
Same wrong claim appears at line 409 and in the table at line 582 — fix all three.

---
_Generated by [Claude Code](https://claude.ai/code)_

Reviewer 2: Fixed in `a5118685`. All three locations now state that `Value` and `Units` are mandatory for present molecules and that a missing value / empty unit raises an error — the bullet here (line 85), the prose at ~line 408, and the table row at line 582.

in the **ModelParameterSheets** column defines the order in which the
parameters are applied.

Initial conditions defined via the **InitialValuesSet** column are
applied after all parameter values have been set, overriding the molecule
start values from the `.pkml` file.

### `ModelInitialValues.xlsx` file structure

The `ModelInitialValues.xlsx` file defines the initial conditions
(molecule start values) for simulations. The path to this file is defined
in `ProjectConfiguration$modelInitialValuesFile`. The file can contain
multiple sheets, each representing a named "initial values set". Each
sheet must have the following columns:

| Column | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| `Container Path` | Path to the container holding the molecule (e.g., `Organism|Liver|Intracellular`) |
| `Molecule Name` | Name of the molecule (e.g., `DrugA`) |
| `Is Present` | Logical (`TRUE`/`FALSE`). Rows with `FALSE` are skipped |
| `Value` | Start value of the molecule |

> | `Units` | Unit of the start value (e.g., `µmol`). Empty means base units |

Reviewer: **Required change (same defect as line 85).** "Empty means base units" is wrong — empty units raise `errorMissingUnitsInInitialValues`. 

```suggestion
| `Units` | Unit of the start value (e.g., `µmol`). Mandatory; empty units for a present molecule raise an error |
```

---
_Generated by [Claude Code](https://claude.ai/code)_

Reviewer 2: Fixed in `a5118685` along with the line-85 occurrence — the table row now reads "Mandatory; empty units for a present molecule raise an error".
